Madrid, España
Fayçal Njoya
+34 619 646 295
fay.njoya@gmail.com
Data Governance & Project Management
PROFILE
I am a strategic project manager with 10+ years of experience implementing frameworks such as Data Governance
(DAMA/DMBOK), ITIL, Scrum, and Project Management (PMP/PMBOK) and developed data management
strategies that encompass everything from architecture to data quality and security, ensuring that stakeholders
and users are well-supported. I have worked in several domains, including Insurance (Multiassistance &
Generali/Europ Assistance), Finance (Volvo & GMA Corporate) & IT (Econocom & IBM).
My focus is to tackle complex data analysis and management projects with the team (both technical and business),
ensuring documentation that facilitates the necessary collaboration to achieve project success. This also makes it
easier to maintain consistent, reliable reporting to each stakeholder to ensure cohesion through the project
outcome.
LANGUAGES
ENGLISH - Fluent
SPANISH - Native
FRENCH - Native
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
RCD Legal — Data Governance Project Manager
NOV 2023 - Current
Led the efforts to create and run a new Data Governance Department and a PMO.
Data Management:
● Strategy
○ Planned and executed an end-to-end Data Management plan that included architecture,
modeling, warehousing, transformation, quality, security, roles, and reporting.
○ Utilized data profiling techniques to support the remediation of data quality issues, ensuring a
comprehensive understanding of data challenges.
○ Managed the SQL server for data warehousing, including data cleaning, re-modeling, and
exploiting BI capabilities for stakeholders.
○ Led a project to create a hybrid architecture by moving key components into Azure, ensuring low
impact on operations and calculating the Azure benefits to existing projects.
● PMO & ITIL Implementation:
○ Created a PMO to standardize and unify the project-based model of the company, integrating
strategy into all actions and improving communication and reporting.
○ Implemented the ITIL v4 framework to better assist the IT Department and all projects, ensuring
alignment with organizational priorities, this included migrating CMDB provider to inhouse
processes

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Data Quality Improvement & Governance:
● Collaborated with various stakeholders to assess, improve, and govern the quality and ongoing suitability
of critical data assets.
● Led the implementation of data quality tools and frameworks to prioritize issues, establish definitions,
and enhance the visibility of data quality within the organization. To achieve this, we conveyed target
goals for data quality improvement and identified optimal approaches for resolving data quality issues in
alignment with organizational priorities.
● Delivered data quality improvement initiatives as defined, agreed upon, and prioritized by working
collaboratively with cross-functional teams.
Data Analytics:
● Designed and implemented a reporting framework, extracting data from the ticketing system (Zoho’s
PostgreSQL) and the company’s SQL Server, to transform it in Dataverse and load it in PowerBI to be
visualized.
● Led the data cleaning processes, personalized the reports from singular sources to be relevant to 3 main
levels of stakeholders (managers, directors and partners), standardized the semantic models so my team
members could process data for reports.
● This role also required the quantitative data shown and structured to be accompanied by my team’s
business insights into pain points, root cause analysis, resource management, market trends,
dependencies and operational recommendations for optimization.
● My incremental plans included the implementation of improved analysis tools and components such as
Pyspark, Azure Data Lake and Purview.
Engagement with Data Domain Managers:
● Worked closely with Data Domain Managers to quantify and articulate the business impact of data quality
issues, ensuring alignment with organizational objectives.
● Collaborated with Data Stewards to understand the root cause of reported data issues, facilitating the
resolution of underlying problems and associated symptoms.
● Developed and monitored Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and metrics to optimize data quality,
providing insights for continuous improvement.
● Documented methodologies, procedures, and project results, presenting them to senior stakeholders
across different functions.
Europ Assistance/Generali — Data Governance Project Manager
APRIL 2022 - AUG 2023
Tasked to lead the Data Governance Project between Europ Assistance Spain and the Generali Group starting with
promoting Insurance processes.
Data Management & Strategy:
● Created the company's architecture and selected its components, launching projects including Data
Management, Benchmark, RFP, and management of external specialized vendors.
● Planned and executed an end-to-end Data Management plan, including architecture, modeling,
warehousing, transformation, quality, security, roles, and reporting.
● Utilized data profiling techniques to support the remediation of data quality issues, ensuring a
comprehensive understanding of data challenges.
Data Quality Improvement & Governance:
● Implemented a Data Governance project replacing a previous external vendor, appointing Chief Data
Users, Data Owners, Data Stewards, and Data System Owners.
● Collaborated with various stakeholders to assess, improve, and govern the quality and ongoing suitability
of critical data assets.
● Led the implementation of data quality tools and frameworks to prioritize issues, establish definitions,
and enhance the visibility of data quality within the organization.
Engagement with Data Domain Managers & Stewards:
● Worked closely with Data Domain Managers to quantify and articulate the business impact of data quality
issues, ensuring alignment with organizational objectives.
● Collaborated with Data Stewards to understand the root cause of reported data issues, facilitating the
resolution of underlying problems and associated symptoms.
● Actively collaborated with the Data Quality Leader to unify all previous processes with the Generali Group
structure and its representatives.
PMO & ITIL Implementation:
● Created a PMO to standardize and unify the project-based model of the company, integrating strategy into

--- PAGE BREAK ---

all actions and improving communication and reporting.
● Implemented the ITIL framework to better assist the IT Department and all projects, ensuring alignment
with organizational priorities.
● Led the integration of the architecture data with the group architecture by launching a parallel project
with the Group CDO and his project team.
Cloud Integration & Compliance model:
● Led a project to create a hybrid architecture by moving key components into Azure, ensuring low impact
on operations and calculating the Azure benefits to existing projects.
● Managed the SQL server for data warehousing, including data cleaning, re-modeling, and exploiting BI
capabilities for stakeholders.
● Utilized various tools and technologies including Data Bricks, Power BI, SAP S/4HANA, Microsoft Power
Automate, PowerApps, Azure Data Lake, Azure Factory, Information Security Framework, Active Directory,
SharePoint with Teams, AWS, and Microsoft Dynamics.
Information Security & Risk Management:
● Implemented an Information Security Framework to ensure the protection of data assets and compliance
with regulatory requirements.
● Conducted IT Risk Management, including Pen Testing and Analysis of Functional Requirements, to
identify and mitigate potential security threats.
● Developed and monitored security KPIs and metrics to ensure continuous improvement and alignment
with industry best practices: ISO 27001, GDPR, NIST, SWIFT & LOPD (this last one was only applicable for
Spain).
Freelance — Strategy Advisor
JUNE 2016 - MARCH 2023
Managing Partner: Creation of the company B. with the brand and its expansion plan that includes a digital
strategy, corporate strategy with organization chart, departments and processes, the creation of an ecommerce
and a franchise of stores with several products and services simultaneously that has 3 stores in Madrid and
Valencia.
Strategy Consultant: Several international projects in various industries with clients in EMEA.
Data Consultant: Several projects that include Data Analytics, Data Governance, Master Data Management, IT
Asset Management and Development.
GMA Corporate — Data Analytics Project Manager
OCT 2021 - FEB 2022
Freelance E2E project. The goal was to analyze the work and processes of the investment fund's Asset
Management team to design the final deliverables and bring them to fruition. The purpose was to create the
company's official financial report, with which management would value its assets.
All finance processes were reworked in order to accomplish this project, including Banking & Investment-related
processes like SCIB/CIB, factoring, financial data flow & Data Quality Models to ensure traceability, and more.
Using Data Design Scheme, Data Modeling, Information Security Framework, IT Risk Management Framework,
DMBOK, Agile PMP (PMBOK), Analysis of Functional Requirements, Pen Testing & Resiliency Services, Data
Catalog, Data flow, Data Quality Control Models, Master Data Management, Power BI, PowerAPP, Dataverse,
Dynamics, Navision, Microsoft Power Automate, and Sharepoint/Teams.
Volvo — Finance Operations Data Analyst
MAR 2018 - MAR 2020
Main goal: Optimization of Order to Cash accounting operations including the creation of FTEs calculator available
to Global Managers, the harmonization of O2C accounting processes and the mapping of processes for clarity of
the COO and CFO of Volvo Global and Spain. Using Data Modeling, Excel, SQL, VBA and Power BI.
Co-creation of KPIs for all entities globally for the company for a harmonized Data Governance and Data

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Management framework. Using Data Modeling, Data Design Scheme, Analysis of Functional Requirements, Data
Catalog, Data flow, Data Quality Control Models, Risk Management Framework (to manage users & API Access),
Power BI, SAP API, Sharepoint/Teams and Active Directory.
Monitoring the Banking & ESG activity of Spain, Belgium, France, Portugal, USA and Sweden. Global SPOC
Order-to-Cash (O2C) for CIB/SCIB processes.
Econocom — IT Project Manager
FEB 2017 - FEB 2018
Main goal: Leading IT teams and their projects to provide services form EMEA clients, by implementing ITIL v3
framework while directly reporting to the COO and CTO.
Analyze and report KPIs and SLAs directly to the client. Execute root cause analysis and report status to both client
and internal staff (Team Lead Coordinator, Management Board or Contract Manager).
Some services we offered through the projects I led: Creation of user systems and company systems through
Active Directory, Service Now CMDB, and Citrix; with Service Now ITSM for Service Management.
Recurrent proocesses: Analysis of Functional Requirements, Data Catalog, Data flow and Data Quality Control
Models to Design telecommunication channels to ensure a help desk service to 3 clients with international
coverage in 6 languages each (French, English, Spanish, Italian, German & Dutch). Creation of frameworks, scripts
and other Data applications for work and team management with output on Sharepoint/Teams.
Other processes involved: IT Risk Management (E2E), Business Resiliency & Recovery Service, Service Level
Agreement & Service Delivery Management
BICG —Strategy Consultant/Change Manager
JUN 2015 - JUL 2016
Member of the design and conception committee for a national top 3 legal branch’s strategic plan to be used from 2016 to
2019, including brand management, market research, business plan, HR and operations.
Design of the internal process structure of the Generali Tower and the Generali Academy located in Italy. Leading IT
Strategic Plan for Generali Academy and reporting its performance to the brand’s CTO.
Support for the international expansion and ESG strategies for a number of clients.
IBM —Business Analyst
JUL 2012 - JUL 2015
Data Modeling and Data design scheme for Global sales Funnel performances. I Reported to IBM Global
Operations, Program Management & Data Management teams daily progress on the transactional databases
relying on IBM Cognos, CIB processes, Excel/SQL and Sharepoint, in coordination with every project team.
Created a project in SQL and VBA that allowed Managers to calculate FTEs for their teams based on real-time
performance and contract signings. I was the lone responsible for Data Modeling on this project.
HR also requested me to provide Excel training to IBM Spain and its European delegation on a quarterly basis. In it, we teached
the following skills: Analysis of Functional Requirements, Data Catalog, Data flow, Data Quality Control Models, .
Mulstiassistance — Business Analyst
DIC 2008 - JUN 2011
Lead, monitor and coordinate the work of the French Insurance B2B Invoicing team, working with Pacifica & GCE.
Co-creating Business Data Catalog, Data flow and leading the analysis of functional requirements to deliver,

--- PAGE BREAK ---

reporting kpis and creating tables in Excel and SQL.
Reporting to France delegation’s COO and CFO.
TECH STACK
Cloud environments:
● Microsoft Azure (DataLake, ML, Lab, Devops, Server, IAM, Kubernetes, Network) & Microsoft Power Platform
(PowerApps, PowerBI, Dataverse, Admin, Purview, Project, Jira Integration).
● Google Cloud Console (Storage, Compute, Looker, IAM, Network, VertexAI, etc) & Google Workspace.
● Amazon Web Services (specially S3 protocol).
Standalone-environments:
● Databases: S3 Cloud, SQL Server, Dataverse, Azure Data Lake, PostgreSQL, Supabase
● Postman
● AI: Vector Embeddings and Database management, Semantic Chunking & Search, Graph RAG,
Mixture-Of-Agents, ReAct Agents, LLM Routing, Context Window Management, Token Management (count &
pricing)
● AI DEVOPS: HuggingFace, Langchain, Langsmith, Ollama, Groq, LlamaIndex, and other similar AI/ML
Frameworks
● Hosting/Deployment: Docker, Hostinger, Vercel, Cloudify, Cloudflare (plus medium knowledge of
● CloudFlare KV)
● PM: Jira, Trello, Monday, Wrike, Microsoft Project, IBM Cognos
● Data Governance & ITIL: Service Now CMDB & ITSM, IBM Infosphere, Microsoft Purview
● IDE: VS Studio, Jupyter Notebooks, Conda
● Languages: Javascript, Nodejs, Nextjs, Python
● Misc: Excalidraw, Airtable, Figma, RPAs (Make, Alteryx, Pipedrive, Zapier, n8n..)
Management Framework in order of usage:
PMBOK, DMBOK, ITIL v3 & v4, Agile Project Management/Scrum, Lean Six Sigma, Lean Startup, Kanban
EDUCATION
DATA SCIENCE SPECIALIZATION PROGRAM - IBM
MAY 2020 - JANUARY 2021
BUSINESS STRATEGY SPECIALIZATION PROGRAM - University of Virginia, Madrid
APRIL 2020 - FEBRUARY 2021
CORPORATE INTELLIGENCE PROFESSIONAL CERTIFICATE - CISDE - Universidad de San Pablo CEU,
Madrid
MARCH 2020 - NOVEMBER 2020
ITIL V3 - Global Knowledge Belgium - Skillsoft
2017
LAW DEGREE, specialized in International Commerce- Universidad Autónoma de Madrid
2009 - 2015